# ADS Metadata Processing Scripts

This repository contains a collection of Python scripts for processing metadata from various sources, including Excel spreadsheets, plain text documents, shapefiles, and web scraping.

## Spreadsheet Metadata

### First Step

- **File**: [spreadsheet_extractor.py](spreadsheet_metadata)
- **Description**: This script extracts metadata from Excel spreadsheets, including title, description, creator, copyright holder, dates, language, and sheet names. It writes the metadata to a text file and also extracts header names to a separate text file.

### Second Step

- **File**: [spreadsheet_compiler.py](spreadsheet_compiler.py)
- **Description**: This script reads the metadata text file generated by the first script and organises it into an Excel workbook. It includes styling for column headers and merges cells for better organisation.

## Plain Text Document Metadata

### First Step

- **File**: [text_metatadata.txt](text_metadata.txt)
- **Description**: This text file contains all the information relating to the document which will then be extracted and inserted into a spreadsheet after performing the next step

### Second Step

- **File**: [text_compiler.py](text_compiler.py)
- **Description**: This script processes metadata from plain text documents (PDF and Word) and organises it into an Excel workbook. It also extracts software information and handles different file types.

## GIS Shapefile Metadata

### First Step

- **File**: [gis_extractor.py](gis_extractor.py)
- **Description**: This script processes metadata from GIS shapefiles, including attribute data and general information. It creates separate attribute tables for each shapefile and compiles general metadata into a text file.

### Second Step

- **File**: [gis_compiler.py](gis_compiler.py)
- **Description**: This script reads the general metadata text file generated in the first step and organises it into an Excel workbook. It includes styling for column headers and merges cells for better organisation.

## Raster Metadata Script

### First Step

- **File**: [raster_metatadata.txt](raster_metadata.txt)
- **Description**: This text file contains all the general information relating to the raster files(.jpg, .png, .tiff) which will then be extracted and inserted into a spreadsheet after performing the next step.

### Second Step

- **File**: [raster_compiler.py](raster_compiler.py.py)
- **Description**: This script processes metadata from photos and DWG drawings, extracts information such as filenames, captions, keywords, periods, creators, and more. It creates an Excel workbook with organised metadata and applies styling to the column headers. To create the metadata file, it also uses the information relating to each individual file which is contained in another spreadsheet. Usually this is the File Name and Caption.


## Web Scraping Script (Additional Script)

- **File**: [projects_scraping.py](projects_scraping.py)
- **Description**: This script demonstrates how to scrape project information from web pages using Python. It specifically targets the project information of a specific organisation from the Archaeology Data Service website. It uses the `requests` library to send HTTP GET requests to URLs of various organisations on the Archaeology Data Service website, extracts organisation names and project titles using `BeautifulSoup`, stores the data in a pandas DataFrame, and exports it to an Excel file.

### Usage

1. Ensure you have installed the required Python packages using `pip`:

   ```bash
   pip install requests beautifulsoup4 pandas
   pip install openpyxl pillow
